Q2. Explain Identity lifecycle management.

Answer:

IoT Device Identity Lifecycle Management is how internet-connected devices are controlled and managed by receiving a unique digital identity.
When an IoT device is first manufactured and issued, it receives a unique ID bound to a PKI certificate to keep it secure.

Identity lifecycle management (ILM) is the full life cycle of identity and access for any user in the network.
It covers every aspect of identity and access management (IAM) from the moment a user/person is on-boarded to the moment that user want to stop the use of service.

Identity lifecycle management means verify the user who is going to access and want to use the given service by the server,
and server must verify the user who wants to access,
and server only provide access to authorized user/client to use the service that is the identity access where only authorised user can access and use the service.
When server manages this process and repeats itself step by step it will be identity lifecycle management,
it will require server to authorize the access to only authorised client that is already registered in database of the service which is going to be used.

Managing the lifecycle of digital identities

Managing digital identities is a complex task, especially as it relates correlating real-world objects, such as a person and their relationship with an organization as an employee of that organization, with a digital representation. In small organizations, keeping the digital representation of individuals who require an identity can be a manual process. For example, when someone is hired, or a contractor arrives, an IT specialist can create an account for them in a directory, and assign them the access they need. However, in mid-size and large organizations, automation can enable the organization to scale more effectively and keep the identities accurate.

The typical process for establishing identity lifecycle management in an organization follows these steps:

Determine whether there are already systems of record - data sources, which the organization treats as authoritative. For example, the organization may have an HR system Workday, and that system is authoritative for providing the current list of employees, and some of their properties such as the employee's name or department. Or an email system such as Exchange Online may be authoritative for an employee's email address.

Connect those systems of record with one or more directories and databases used by applications, and resolve any inconsistencies between the directories and the systems of record. For example, a directory may have obsolete data, such as an account for a former employee that is no longer needed.

Determine what processes can be used to supply authoritative information in the absence of a system of record. For example, if there are digital identities for visitors, but the organization has no database for visitors, then it may be necessary to find an alternate way to determine when a digital identity for a visitor is no longer needed.

Ensure that changes from the system of record or other processes are replicated to each of the directories or databases that require an update.

