Q1. How digital signatures work, and explain its use in the scenario of updating an IoT device Over The Air(OTA). 

Answer:

1. Digital signatures work by proving/declaring that a digital message or document was not modified intentionally or unintentionally from the time it was signed/authorised.

2. Digital signatures do this by generating a unique hash of the message or document and encrypting it using the sender's private key.

3. Digital signatures works as a verification of a person/user who uses any service over the internet and electronic devices.

=> Its uses in the scenario of updating an IoT device Over The Air (OTA) are given below:

1. Over-the-air (OTA) is the capability of wirelessly downloading an application, configuration, or firmware, to internet-enabled devices, popularly known as IoT. 

2. It works in a similar fashion as our computers, laptops, tablets, and phones get updated.

3. It can be used for updating IoT device Over The Air (OTA), because it has multiple access

4. It can also be used as a verification of client for using the services.

5. Asymmetric encryption – asymmetric encryption  is a cryptographic method that uses a key pair system. 
One key, called the public key, encrypts the data. The other key, called the private key, decrypts the data.

6. Public key cryptography can be used several ways to ensure confidentiality, integrity, and authenticity. 

7. Public key cryptography can Ensure integrity by creating a digital signature of the message using the sender’s private key. 

8. This is done by hashing the message and encrypting the hash value with their private key.
By doing this, any changes to the message will result in a different hash value.

9. Ensure confidentiality by encrypting the entire message with the recipient’s public key.
This means that only the recipient, who is in possession of the corresponding private key, can read the message.
Verify the user’s identity using the public key and checking it against a certificate authority.
